My next point is shut up.
[LAUGH] It's say less.
And I'll start with well this blue
box down here, a big temptation and
this actually I think comes from
my engineering background and
my schooling background is
to show your work, right?
Let me show you all of the things
that I did to get to here.
It's, on one hand,
it can be credibility lending of,
look at all the background I did in this,
but for the most part,
it's self-aggrandizing, whether you
mean to be or not, where it's like,
look at all the work I did,
look how important this is.
Don't do that.
I actually don't care how you got there.
I hired you or I work with you
because I think you're an expert and
a domain expert.
Just tell me what you want me to know,
right?
Please say less, right?
So now that you have an audience in
your mind that you're talking about,
I'm talking to my team.
I'm talking to a bunch
of product managers.
I'm talking to customers.
I'm talking to developers.
Think about the context that they need
the minimum viable set of context for
them to get to the point that you can
actually start talking about your plan,
or whatever you want out of them.
So, here's a couple of very breakable
rules that I'm gonna throw at you.
If an audience all knows something
that you're about to tell them,
then don't say it.
Why are you saying something that
everybody knows and has acknowledged and
is okay with?
You do not need to share
any of that context.
There's some companies that love to say
like, well, what if someone in the future
is gonna read this talk because I
didn't have time to ask somebody.
I don't know I'm not slowing
everybody down in that maybe
someone new might read this someday, okay?
If none of the audience knows something,
and is it's critical to your message,
those are the things that you
need to set in context sharing.
So let me contact share and
contact sharing for a second here.
[LAUGH] Contact sharing is basically
the idea that you're gonna
set enough context on whatever
you're about to tell them.
Whatever your point is, whatever you
want them to do, it's enough of say,
okay, we're gonna migrate from
server less to Kubernetes.
Let me tell you about what enough about
what server less is and what Kubernetes is
so that you can understand I'm doing this
and I'm trading off for this, right?
And I want your sponsorship of this to
go forward with this particular project.
If you're talking to a bunch of a group
of engineers that have been working on
a serverless platform for 10 years.
Has sever less been around that long?
Probably.
Anyway you don't have to tell
him what Serverless is, right?
Please don't tell them what Serverless
is cuz you're probably wrong and
they probably know better than you, right?
But if you're talking to a bunch of
executives ,you probably need to tell them
why this is different and
why it's important to them.
By the way, this can be really expensive
or doesn't scale the way you want to or
it's unpredictable and
it scales to zero and blah, blah, blah.
All those terms probably
need definition for
your leadership if it's
critical to your message.
If they don't care about scaled to
zero means, then don't tell them.
It's fine.
So that's what I'm talking about
when I'm saying context sharing.
How much lead up in your doc do you
need before you actually get to
what you're at or
in your meeting as well, right?
So yeah, the next rule here
is if some people know it and
it's important to it,
you can give a short summary and
then links are the most wonderful
thing in the entire world.
It's like, hey, here's a two sentence
blurb about what Serverless is.
If you need more,
I wrote an entire treatise of this.
Here's the dock.
Click here and
then use that dock to send everybody.
If you care to know more about here is
everything you've ever wanted to know.
But I'm not gonna put it in my
critical path of getting you from,
I don't know anything about this
to I agree with your point.
And if context just isn't important
to your message, just leave it out.
Just don't share it.
You don't have to say it.
If it cannot be left out because for
some reason either someone thinks it's
important that it needs to be there, or
it's tangentially related to something
grander that it needs to be in there.
I don't know,
whatever reason that you can think of,
just use links, write a different doc,
get it out of the critical path, and
send only the select few that need
to see it off into the wilderness.
So, say less.
This is what I'm saying
when I'm saying less.
I'm gonna tell you why I'm
gonna tell you say less.
Hopefully, most of your just
nodding is like yeah, probably,
I wish people would say less than
these particular kinds of dogs.
But well, yeah, here's my example.
Here's kind of what I was saying.
If you're saying like,
we're moving off of Heroku and
we're gonna be moved on to,
GKE, Google Kubernetes engine.
Let's say we have two different meetings
one is gonna be with all the tech leaders
and one is gonna be with
a bunch of product leaders.
With the tech leaders you probably
don't need to explain what a dyno is,
you probably don't need
to explain what GKE is,
what pods are, what services are,
what's secret storage is.
They probably know, they probably know
better than you, you can leave all
that part out and just be very cursory
like, we're doing these things and
this is our proposal and
get quickly into the technical details.
Because that's probably what they want and
it's probably what you want, right?
If you're sharing with product leaders,
you need to probably spend a decent amount
more time telling them, this is
everything that we're talking about.
This is what a dino is.
This is why it's really expensive.
This is why salesforce doesn't
support Heroku anymore.
RIP to the real one.
And this is what Kubernetes is, right?
And this is why we'd wanna be on there.
And then you talk about big
product decisions of, okay,
we're doing this because this enables us
to scale it a cost or this enables us to
do a bunch of other things that we wanted
to do that enables product things.
And this is why we it affects users for
it again.
But you're gonna wanna be able
to root this and this affects,
these stakeholders and these users, maybe
it's the stakeholders that allows our
dev team to move faster eventually, right?
But do you understand what I'm
saying with context setting and
saying the least amount of important and
make sure it's cater to the audience
that you're talking to?
Okay, so why?
Have you ever been in a meeting or
just got derailed on something so
pointlessly tangential
that you just wanna die?
I'm not talking about
anything specific here.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Like weekly, right?
It's a huge pet peeve of mine because
it's such a waste of time for so
many people, myself included and
it's frequently because
the product manager whoever's
running the meeting, went on.
They expose themselves to this tangent and
then someone's like,
I'll take that tangent I'm gonna run with
it and not give it back to you, right?
So if you reduce surface area you reduce
the ability of people to kind of take
these and
run these in different directions.
It's the same thing with like docs, right?
if you do all this context setting and
then you're talking about stuff
that's actually not really related.
If you start getting into like, what is
secret store in a doc to product leaders,
they're gonna might rabbit hole on that.
And there's like a 10,000 comment thread
on this one thing that's, no one caress.
I don't actually put it on HashiCorp.
I don't care.
I don't care where the secrets are.
All right, write it in the code.
I don't care.
Now my problem,
it's security is problem, right?
So that's what I'm saying was say less and
reducing surface area.
It helps focus discussions.
It helps keep people on task and moving
in alignment to the things that you want.
I'm just saying all these things because
someday one of you is gonna be my coworker
and hopefully one of you
is going to do this.
[LAUGH]
>> I think you're always gonna have people
that are gonna find context out of
nowhere and I'll pull it out and
I'll steer the conversation in
some other direction that has
nothing to do with what
you're trying to accomplish.
>> Absolutely.
>> Because people are the worst.
>> They'll beat that horse.
>> Yeah,
this is reducing your exposure to it.
And that's kind of the point here, is you
do have people that are gonna be like that
and they gonna do it
no matter what you do.
And so,
there's nothing you can do to help that.
We'll talk about how to like rerail
meetings when we get to that section.
But in these particular cases, you're
trying to help the people that wouldn't
normally otherwise derail it get caught up
on a subject that's not really pertinent
to what you're actually trying to do.
This is another thing, that don't convince
people who don't need convincing, right?
If you go into a meeting and there's
consensus already about what you're
proposing, end the meeting and
get the hell out of there.
You already got what you wanted, right?
There's some PMs that will try and
go in there and is like, well,
I prepared all of this stuff,
I'm gonna tell you anyway, right?
And it's just like, I did work, therefore
I don't feel fulfilled until I express it.
It doesn't matter, right?
If you already have consensus this
was actually no from a text of this
course to several of my former and
current colleagues and
one of them Brian Harrelson who's actually
the editor of the JavaScript spec.
This is one that he really harped
on that I thought was really good.
When you see bits of consensus caught,
I was okay, we agree on that, and
we agree on that, and then you start
putting bits of consensus together, and
then you end up with consensus.
I thought that was brilliant.
But in particular with, once you see total
consensus, just call it save this is good.
And if you can end it or if you can
move on to the next thing, right?
But do not spend a bunch of time with
a bunch of things to convince people when
you have already won the battle, right?
Because what ends up happening and
I have seen this before,
when you start trying to convince people
of something you start telling them is,
well, here's the downside, but let me
explain to you why the upside is good.
I didn't think about that downside before,
now I'm unconvinced of your point.
Sometimes it can be useful
to kind of walk through it,
frequently, it's pointless, and so you
shouldn't have done it in the first place.
And that your faults for running
the meeting on the dock incorrectly.
>> I feel like some of that could
be like CYA for the future, too.
Cuz you gotta be like while we kind of
discussed this as a potential con, right?
Though my approach.
>> Yeah, cover your butt,
cover your butt to CYA by the way.
>> What's that?
>> Not everyone knows all the acronyms,
so CYA, is cover your butt.
>> Come clear, cover your what?
>> Your butt.
>> You're basically indemnifying
yourself for the future and saying,
well, I did discuss this and
you didn't say anything at the time, so
I would assume that you kind
of took that as he as yes.
>> So what you're talking about
was essentially a variation of
inoculation theory and
I have a slide on that as well.
It frequently just doesn't come up, right?
And so all exploring,
all the hypotheticals is rarely of use.
Sometimes it's, frequently it's not.
>> Got to know the context.
>> Yeah, it depends.